- [Instructor] Let's talk a little bit about
what a collection does
before taking a look at some code that uses a collection.
You can think of a collection as an object
that groups other objects together
and provide some common operations
for working with the group.
A collection makes it much easier to write code
where you're working with multiple objects,
and the number of objects can not be predicted.
I'll demonstrate this
using a simple example for the Landon Hotel.
The Landon Hotel is a fictional hotel
that we'll be using for examples and challenges
throughout the course.
So to kick things off,
let's imagine that the Landon Hotel
would like to manage the rooms
and understand the potential revenue from them being booked.
We might model something like a room class.
Within that class,
we could place fields for the name of the room,
its type, its capacity and its daily rate.
You'll also notice there's a constructor for the room
to create an instance of it
and accessors for all of its fields.
Then in our application,
we might write some logic like this.
We might create some rooms.
So here you see we have two, Cambridge and Manchester.
And then we would pass those rooms into a method
that would perform the potential revenue calculation.
So you'll notice that I've created that method,
and it accepts two parameters of type Room.
Inside of the method's body,
it takes those rooms and gets their rates
and then totals the rates together
to calculate the potential revenue.
Now what would happen if we wanted to add a third room
into this calculation?
Let's see.
I'm going to copy our room,
and then I'll switch it over to be a room named Piccadilly.
So let's switch up these constructor arguments.
I'll make Piccadilly a guest room.
It will hold three people,
and it's going to cost $125 per night.
Okay. Now that we have the third room,
we need to include it by passing it as an argument
to the method.
And that means we'll need to refactor this method signature
to accept a third room parameter.
Then we'll have to adjust the calculation
to account for the third room.
So you can see how brittle this code is.
And it's not very extensible.
If we wanted to add a fourth room,
we would have to go through the same refactoring process.
Now we can do this much better using a collection
to manage all of these objects as a group.
So let's go ahead.
I'm going to create a collection that holds rooms.
I'll give it a name of rooms.
And then I'm going to use a static factory method
on the list in order to create the collection.
Now, instead of passing in these three arguments
to our method,
I'm just going to replace them with our room's collection.
And then I'm going to place those rooms
inside of the static factory method
so that they are included in our collection.
Now we'll still need to refactor
the getPotentialRevenue method
in order to accept a single parameter.
So let's go ahead.
We'll get rid of these three room parameters.
And then I'm going to declare another parameter
that's of type Collection,
and I'll name it rooms.
Then we can go ahead and adjust our calculation.
So instead of performing this addition,
I'm going to take our collection of rooms,
and I'll stream it.
And then I can use a method named mapToDouble.
And I'll get the rate of each room
using a lambda expression.
And then from there,
all I need to do is call the sum method
to total the rate of each room in our collection.
Okay. That's much easier.
You'll notice we're now managing these objects together
in a group using our collection.
Now let's see how easy it is
to add a fourth room into this calculation.
So I'm going to copy Piccadilly,
and I'll create a new room named Oxford.
So let me adjust some of these constructor arguments.
We'll make Oxford a suite.
It's going to hold five people,
and it'll cost $225 a night.
Okay, I'm going to save that.
So let's go ahead,
and I'll first execute this code
without Oxford in the collection.
You'll notice the potential revenue of the rooms
in our collection is $550.
Now, once I add Oxford into the collection,
watch what happens.
You'll notice that the potential revenue
increases to include Oxford
which was recently added into our collection.
Now here's the great part about this.
We didn't need to refactor our getPotentialRevenue method
in order to make that happen.
All we needed to do was add Oxford into the collection.
And because we're managing those objects as a group,
it just automatically gets included in our calculation.
So you see the flexibility that we get with collections.
And this is just a very simple example.
We've only scratched the surface.
But the benefits of grouping and managing objects
in a collection are obvious from this example.
As we explore the details of how to use the interfaces
and implementations in the framework,
you'll learn how to take advantage of their prebuilt methods
and the utilities that surround them.